After talking to you the other day, the best way moving forward is to get you to see an assorted array of tools at a medium depth to get you better acquainted and more comfortable with technology.
Rather than learn concepts, were going to go straight into tools. Youre not expected to use them in the future, but all strategies used in these tools are used elsewhere.
This will expose you to terminology for better communication. Further, it will allow you to have a better mental model and demistify what happens behind all the abstractions.

Instructions: For EACH of these tools, you should be able to explain the following:
1. How does it work?
2. How would YOU implement it yourself at a high level? Write a long description or talk to me about it.
3. I want you to get lost in each tool. Have fun with it. This is going to get you better acquainted with  networking tools overall.
4. Complete the objectives.
5. Every day, we will talk about what you learned and youll have to go one layer deeper into understanding each tool.

## Tool 0: Routers, Hubs, Switches
Objective: Sniff out packets on the network.
[hubs, switches, routers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ofjsh_E4HFY)

Describe as precisely as possible what the difference is between Hubs, Switches and Routers.
Youre currently connected to a WIFI network. Explain what the topology probably looks like.
Download Wireshark, attempt to explain some of the traffic that is going on.

  * a **Router** routes packets between two or more networks
  * a **Hub** sends traffic to all computers attached to it
  * a **Switch** sends traffic to the destination and only to the destination, _if_ that destination is connected to the switch.
  
The router connects the Internet to a switch or a hub. The hub sends data over it's cable to everyone else connected. Say the hub is connected to a switch - the switch doesn't just send everything it receives back to everybody connected like a hub does. Instead, the switch looks at each individual packet's Media Access Control (MAC) address which corresponds with a specific connected computer, and it sends the packet to these computers only. https://kimrosea.files.wordpress.com/2014/01/internet-monitoring-lan-hub-switch.png 


## Tool 1: Tor/Darknet/Darkweb
Objective: Download Tor and understand how you would safely buy illicit equipment off the darknet.
Things you must be able to explain to a layman.
* `Encrypted traffic`: 
* `Proxy servers`: essentially a 'middleman' assigned to send and receive messages for you
* `VPNs`: VPN establishes a 'tunnel' between the two firewalls that's encrypted, and the traffic going to/from the remote network is tunneled through the VPN tunnel so you're physically somewhere else, but logically on the network.
* `Tunnels`: a virtual connection where data packets are encapsulated and sent over. 
[Tor](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pyq4vwxqvSI)

## Tool 2: VPN
Objective: Use a VPN to switch IP to another nation. _I used tunnelbear_
We have talked about the OSI model before, but did not go into specifics.
Describe each layer in detail.
[VPN](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q4P4BjjXghQ)

**OSI model**

Layers are in desc. order (https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/103884/the-osi-model-s-seven-layers-defined-and-functions-explained):

1. __Physical__: The physical layer, the lowest layer of the OSI model, is concerned with the transmission and reception of the unstructured raw bit stream over a physical medium. It describes the electrical/optical, mechanical, and functional interfaces to the physical medium, and carries the signals for all of the higher layers.
2. __Data Link__: The data link layer provides error-free transfer of data frames from one node to another over the physical layer, allowing layers above it to assume virtually error-free transmission over the link. 
3. __Network__: The network layer controls the operation of the subnet, deciding which physical path the data should take based on network conditions, priority of service, and routing
4. __Transport__: the transport layer ensures that messages are delivered error-free, in sequence, and with no losses or duplications. It relieves the higher layer protocols from any concern with the transfer of data between them and their peers.
5. __Session__: The session layer allows session establishment between processes running on different stations. 
6. __ Presentation__: The presentation layer formats the data to be presented to the application layer. It can be viewed as the translator for the network. This layer may translate data from a format used by the application layer into a common format at the sending station, then translate the common format to a format known to the application layer at the receiving station.
7. __Application__: The application layer serves as the window for users and application processes to access network services.



## Tool 3: NGROK
Objective: Expose your local web server to someone else on the public internet.
`./ngrok http [port #]`
How does NGROK accomplish what it does?
 * NGROK essentially allows you to do local host tunneling. A local host tunnel provides a bridge from your own local dev environment to a publicly accessible URL. It does this by running the ngrok program on your local system, which connects to the NGROK service which provides a URL, and any client that provides requests to that URL, that request is passed to the NGROK program running on your system and then in turn that is passed to the port you opened up for your web server. 
How can this help you in your development process?
 * this can help in my dev process by allowing clients to access the WIP web app without having to wait until we deploy onto a remote server; faster iterations.

## Tool 4: uTorrent
Objective: Understand how distributed systems work.
How does uTorrent work? 
 * uTorrent is basically a collection of files hosted by other people's computers and servers around the world. If they stay logged into their torrent client (i.e., uTorrent), then they become part of the larger collection of hosted files. Each one of these is called a seed. The more seeds there are, the more people are making this file available, and the faster it downloads. 
How do P2P things work overall?
 * Peer-to-Peer (P2P) things mean that there isn't a central server. Rather, every user of the service acts as a mini-server, providing uploads to other users of the service.
   - PROs: 
     * really cheap for hosting p2p; i.e., Spotify has their users pay to be the servers instead of them having to pay to keep the servers running.
     * less chance of the whole network going down at once because there's no single point of failure
   - CONs: 
     * servers are less reliable. They can go offline at any minute so the code has to be accountable for that
     * harder to make sure they're all updated so you have to deal with a mix of versions all the time. 
Do you understand upload, download speeds etc etc?
 * __Upload__: speed at which you are able to upload data
 * __Download__: speed at which you are able to download data
 * __Bandwidth__: how fast (and how many things at once) you can download. 
 
## Tool 6: MBP
Objective: At EACH of the following hardware components, attempt to understand how they LOOK on the motherboard, what CABLES are used, how the FIRMWARE works.
[Macbook Pro](https://www.apple.com/shop/buy-mac/macbook-pro/15-inch) - Explain every component listed. Why is it beneficial at a lower level? How does each piece of hardware contribute to better performance?

1. __Processor (CPU) __: Processor's job is to take data from memory (RAM), storage (hard-drive), user inputs (mouse/keyboard) and then perform an operation on that daet and ouput new data to memory, storage or output devices (screen, speakers, etc). _it's mostly just moving data from one place in memory to another_.more cores helps multi-tasking, and only speeds up some tasks (i.e., i5 dual-core vs. i7 quad core)
 - _Turbo Boost_: allows the CPU to run significantly faster, but only for short periods of time.
2. __RAM__: used for temporary storage of data. RAM is MUCH faster than your hard disks. If you are running many apps at the same, since it is really really fast to read/write from RAM, by having more RAM, your computer doesn't have to access data directly from the disk which would cause a decrease in performance. 
3. __Hard drive__: used for long-term storage of data
 - _Hard disk drives (HDD)_: uses spinning iron platters to store information
 - _Solid state drives (SSD) _: uses flash memory, and involves no moving parts. Because of this, SSD has much quicker read/write times, and is the popular choice for use as a system drive.
4. __Graphics Card (GPU)__: they are designed to perform very fast mathematical calculations very fast. They take the load off, or share the load with, the main processor in a computer (CPU). 


##Tool 5: Bitcoin
What the fuck is bitcoin?
 * __Bitcoins__ are virtual currency. New ones are generated by computers solving really hard math problems - called "mining". If you are the first to solve the problem, you get the bitcoins and then everybody starts working on the next math problem. In addition to generating bitcoins, you can purchase them online through several websites using regular currency.
 
Why is it considered to be distributed?
 * Bitcoin is a p2p payment network, considered to be distributed since there is no 'central' ledger that keeps tracks of all the bitcoins, rather a distributed legdger exists and is shared by a group of peers. The current state of the ledger is represented by the peer's consensus on what records the ledger contains. Anyone can obtain a copy of the ledger from any of the peers, as there is no single authoritative copy. 

##Tool 6: Cloudflare
What is cloudflare? Whats so amazing about it.
 * Cloudflare is a service that 
   1. caches your static content so that when 1000 people visit your website simultaneously, your server won't be overwhelmed
   2. Hides your IP address so that 1000 fake people don't ddos your server
   
Who are some of cloudflares competitors and compare them.
 * __Amazon CloudFront__: 
   - PROs: 
     * easier setup
     * better interface
     * analytics
     * free
 * __ Rackspace CDN__:
   - CONs:
     * 1% marketshare vs Cloudflare's 10%


Extra mission:
Set up an AWS EC2 instance ALONE -- explain what you are doing at each step.

1. https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-west-2# 
 * create instance (Amazon Machine Instance - AMI) 
   * select OS; Ubuntu
   * enable SSH
     - first allow SSH via IP address https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AccessingInstancesLinux.html
     - once inside server, manually add own ssh_key to ssh from wherever 


Download a linux distro and run it on VM


#Resources you should watch and should talk to me about over food.
[hubs, switches, routers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ofjsh_E4HFY) - can you explain how we are connected to the internet? 
[NAT](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QBqPzHEDzvo)
 * IPv6 will eliminate the need for NAT (private -> public IP addresses) by being able to give everyone their own unique IP address. IPv6 standard was finalized in 1998, but we're still in IPv4 today -- very slow to migrate over...
[OSI model demystified](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HEEnLZV2wGI)
[VPN](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DhYeqgufYss)


